README.md, before:

# ROS2 Launch Inspection Tool

This project provides tools to record the execution of ROS 2 launch
and analyze the launch execution.

## Prerequisites

- Rust toolchain

  Visit [rustup.rs](https://rustup.rs/) and install `rustup`.

- rye

  Visit [rye.astral.sh](https://rye.astral.sh/) to install it. It is
  used to setup a Python virtual environment and to manage Python
  project.


- just

  Read the [book](https://just.systems/man/en/) and follow
  installation instructions. It enables us to use `justfile`, a modern
  version of `Makefile`.

## Usage

### Record a launch execution.

This example runs a Autoware planning simulation. Press Ctrl-C to
terminate the record. A `dump.json` will be created.

```sh
just record \
  /path_to_autoware/src/launcher/autoware_launch/autoware_launch/launch/planning_simulator.launch.xml \
  map_path:=$HOME/autoware_map/sample-map-planning vehicle_model:=sample_vehicle \
  sensor_model:=sample_sensor_kit
```

### Analyze the dump file.

To generate the shell scripts to replay the launch on the terminal,

```sh
just generate_script
```

To replay the launch,

```sh
just run_dump
```

## License

This software is distributed under MIT license. You can read the
[license file](LICENSE.txt).

Commit message:

Describe the issue that composable nodes are not supported.

README.md, after:

# ROS2 Launch Inspection Tool

This project provides tools to record the execution of ROS 2 launch
and analyze the launch execution.

## Prerequisites

- Rust toolchain

  Visit [rustup.rs](https://rustup.rs/) and install `rustup`.

- rye

  Visit [rye.astral.sh](https://rye.astral.sh/) to install it. It is
  used to setup a Python virtual environment and to manage Python
  project.


- just

  Read the [book](https://just.systems/man/en/) and follow
  installation instructions. It enables us to use `justfile`, a modern
  version of `Makefile`.

## Usage

### Record a launch execution.

This example runs a Autoware planning simulation. Press Ctrl-C to
terminate the record. A `dump.json` will be created.

```sh
just record \
  /path_to_autoware/src/launcher/autoware_launch/autoware_launch/launch/planning_simulator.launch.xml \
  map_path:=$HOME/autoware_map/sample-map-planning vehicle_model:=sample_vehicle \
  sensor_model:=sample_sensor_kit
```

### Analyze the dump file.

To generate the shell scripts to replay the launch on the terminal,

```sh
just generate_script
```

To replay the launch,

```sh
just run_dump
```

## Known Issues

### Composable nodes are not recorded.

The ROS2 launch provides the composable node container feature, which
starts a special node as a container, and the container process
receives composable node requests afterwards. Because the requests are
sent to the container node, the launch system is unable to intercept
the request directly. The affected elements are `<composable_node>`
and `<load_composable_node>` in the launch file.

## License

This software is distributed under MIT license. You can read the
[license file](LICENSE.txt).
